# Product Engineer Exercise

Our products must provide the most valuable information at the most appropriate time to our users. As our core technology works to distill information from complex data streams, the products and services built on this technology must be able to turn that information into action.

The problem in this exercise constructs a stylized version of a problem we regularly face: how to convey statistical findings to users in an informative and compelling way.

## The Problem

Suppose we are working with a customer that has an asset that consumes a lot of electricity. In this case, we have deployed to the asset in order to predict its average daily power consumption. At the end of every day, the actual average power consumption is computed and we can compare our prediction to the actual consumption. In an effort to better understand the quality of our predictions we would like to develop an internal application to explore the data generated by our deployment.

The file `data/power_consumption.json` is a recorded stream of this data. Each blob of data is a daily readout from the deployment with the following form:

	{
		Date: Date of the data were generated
		glb_act_pwr_forecast: predicted average power consumption (in kilowatt),
		glb_act_pwr_mean: average observed power consumption (in kilowatt),
		glb_act_pwr_forecast_error: difference between predicted average consumption and observed,
		glb_act_pwr_sd: standard deviation of observed power consumption (in kilowatt),
		voltage_sd: standard deviation of observed voltage, 
		voltage_mean: average observed voltage,
		sub1_sd: standard deviation of power consumption from sub-component 1 (in kilowatt-hours),
		sub1_mean: average observed power consumption from sub-component 1,
		sub2_sd: standard deviation of power consumption from sub-component 2 (in kilowatt-hours)
		sub2_mean: average observed power consumption from sub-component 2,
		sub3_sd: standard deviation of power consumption from sub-component 3 (in kilowatt-hours)
		sub3_mean: average observed power consumption from sub-component 3,
	}

Within the context of the data, the `glb_act_pwr_forecast` value is our daily forecast, and the `glb_act_pwr_mean` value is the actual average power consumption. The `glb_act_pwr_forecast_error` value is the difference between our forecast and the actual consumption. 

The challenge is to develop a simple Javascript application that can display this information in a web browser in an informative and compelling way. 

### Product Requirements

You are free to construct this application anyway that you like, and we encourage you to think creatively about how to display this data.  There are, however, two basic requirements of the application:

 1. Visualize the daily prediction error
 2. Display short-term (10 days), and long term (30 days) trends in prediction error

**Note**: 

 - The first ten days of readouts contain no power consumption predictions or error. You can think of this as the training period for the model.
 - There are several additional values included in each day's readout. You are welcome to explore and use this data however you see fit.
 - You are welcome to use any frameworks or external tools and libraries you like for this exercise. 

## Submitting

We utilize Github and [pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/) for collaborating on code. Create a new [branch](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging) for your submission. While working on the exercise feel free to commit as much as you like.

When you are ready to submit, open a pull request against the `master` branch. In your pull request, make sure to specify how to run your exercise as well as any other information you think is relevant.

You have **7 days** from when you receive these exercise instructions to submit your pull request. Any submissions received after this time will not be evaluated. 

## Evaluation

This take home exercise ask you to build a solution to a basic product engineering problem we face at Alluvium. Therefore, your submission will be evaluated based on common software engineering best practices. If you are invited in for an on-site interview your first meeting will be a review of the code you submit for this exercise. As such, we expect that your submission is a reflection of the quality of code you would submit for review as a professional software engineer.
